Last week I ordered a couple of the brand spanking new Raspberry Pi Zero Wireless boards from adafruit.

It took 4 days for them to pack the order. I hope that was due to ... demand.

Anyhow, they've arrived and they're beautiful little pieces of technology. I'm impressed.


It taking a photo of them next to the current crop of pi485 boards got me looking into the HAT spec.

It would add some parts. It would add some small-volume cost. Most of all, though, it would meand I'd have to
move to at _least_ a double-sided clad board to get the form factor size down, and I'd probably have to move
from easy to solder "through hole" components to SMT. As if that weren't enough, mechanical tinning would be
pretty much impossible, as I'd burn up the traces with the iron -- so I'd need to invest in liquid tin.

Most of these issues aren't a huge problem by themselves, but the move to SMT 'scares' me, and honestly...

It's not worth it for my own personal purposes. If I were trying to build this as a product to sell, _then_
I would jump to SMT, save a few bucks per unit on components (because SMT is cheaper than THT these days), go
double-sided PCB with liquid-tin for home fabrication, and add the necessary eeprom bits for pi HAT specs.

As it stands, I've got like 4 working pi485's that can backpower v5 just fine with a properly adjusted supply,
even if they don't 'physically' match the pi HAT spec layouts.

Even still, I'll have the intellectual challenge teasing me in the back of my mind.

Meh. Back to reverse engineering the protocol... 
