In my early sugar motor experiments I was using fuses to light the
propellant grains. This resulted in the motors burning from the bottom 
of the core to the top, which had a few significant effects on the burn
rate, internal pressures, etc. It just wasn't good. In keeping with the 
rest of my goals for this project, I looked into making my own electric 
matches, pyrotechnic triggers that would get hot enough to ignite the 
propellant.

I know there are commercially available options for this out there.
But here's what I've found.

With my launch controller setup (providing 12v @ 2 amps with a 6ohm 
burden in line with the igniter) I've measured that 50mm of 40 gauge 
nichrome wire glows quite nicely (and quickly) without burning through 
with a 1 second pulse. However, it seems to not get hot enough to ignite
pure sugar fuel in a fast manner. So I think it'll be best if I mix 
black powder into the sugar fuel, then use that to pack around the
igniters.

As for the nichrome, when wrapping that around a 1mm wire removed from a
bundle of cat5, it takes about 16 wraps to get the 50mm. If you want the
igniter to get hotter faster, you'll reduce that number.

The issue I've been having, is that the insulation melts and shortens
the conductive length of the nichrome, which then means my burden 
resistors get a bit too much wattage through them and start to smoke.

If I ever build another one of these stands, I'll have to be more careful
with the heat dissipation capability of the burden resistors, and I'll
probably have to go to a wire-wrapped ceramic resistor for that.

But it looks like the theory is solid, and that this will work to ignite
motors from the tip of the core, providing more initial thrust, hopefull 
a shorter burn time, and increased chamber pressure.

Only one way to find out, right?