# Day 2 - Filling
Our neighbor tore out their 30' above ground pool last year, and donated his 20" pool filter and a couple of pumps for us to use. I picked up 200 pounds of filter sand for this filter over the weekend.

This year I'll be adapting / updating our hard-plumbing with those pieces of equipment placed near the house, running pipe underground in insulated channels to the inlet and outfeeds.

Since it's raining today, I plugged the returns with stoppers and started filling the pool.

As the water approached the returns, I dumped in two gallons of muriatic acid. If the well water chemistry is close to what it was last year, I should need another half gallon or so more to get the total alkalinity to the right spot. Adding this now lets me bubble the PH up a bit using the turbulance from the garden hose as the pool fills.

Also worth noting, we re-oriented the pool so that the inlet and returns are on the side of the pool we don't start at out of our windows -- the bigger reason was so that the skimmer would be on the side the prevailing winds blow things _toward_, instead of the skimmer constantly working against the wind. This coupled with the higher power pump, larger sand filter, and DE media I can add to the sand should dramatically improve our pool filtration and reduce the amount of backwashing I have to do.

We shall see how this turns out.

Worth noting: Last week I took delivery of fresh test kit chemicals, clarifier, etc.

The weather the next day looks like rain, and I've got some trenching / digging / transplanting to do in order to setup the pump / filter stack in the appropriate location.

We also have a new solar heater with a roof mount kit for this year. I have a lot of work ahead of me this next week to get the plumbing in place.
